---
layout: default
title: "Week 12: November 21-November 28th"
date: 2017-11-28
published: true
excerpt_separator: <excerpt>
---
This week I worked on my webcrawler and found resources to understand US Census Bureau data, specifically the American Community Survey 1-Year Data (2011-2016). <excerpt>

The webcrawler program is now available n my GitHub (link at bottom of page) in the CREU project in the java folder. It does not use SQL to store the data yet but I hope to get that working if necessary. The program takes a starting url, the page to begin search at, the "base" url of the website, which is used by the program to make sure the programm does not go to outside links, and a keyword to search for. I will use this program for cities and towns that are missing information in the data sets we have but night have the data on their websites. Entering "inccome" will bring up all webpages with the word income on them, for example. After our group gathers information from other sources that are easier to find, I wil refine this so that multiple websites and keywords can be found at the same time.

I have identified several pieces of data that can be extracted from the American Community Survey for use in our project. The majority of this data falls under the category of economic sustainability, some falls under scial sustainability and none can be considered evironmental sustainability. Average income, commute time, and educational attainment are all included among many other pieces of data. The subjects and theeir definitions can be found here: https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/tech_docs/subject_definitions/2016_ACSSubjectDefinitions.pdf

Because of finals, we did not have a meeting this week. I have some questions about our ontology design to present to the group, but for now I will focus on extracting data from the American Community Survey for use with towns and cities that do not have good sources of open data. I will also continue to look for sources of environmental sustainability data.
