---
layout: default
title: "Week 5: October 03rd - October 10th"
date: 2017-10-10
published: true
excerpt_separator: <excerpt>
---
This week I studied a paper that measured the sustainability of 100 cities from around the world using the pillars of sustainability. Overall it was very informative on what is currently used to measure sustainability and where to find those resources, however, I found that certain areas were lacking. Additionally, I began to study another paper about the Circles of Sustainability, which I have not completed.<excerpt>

As discussed last week, the pillars of sustainability method splits sustainability into 3 section: People, planet, and profit. First I will discuss how the study I looked at measured each of these and my opinions about this measurement. Here is a link to the study: https://www.arcadis.com/media/0/6/6/%7B06687980-3179-47AD-89FD-F6AFA76EBB73%7DSustainable%20Cities%20Index%202016%20Global%20Web.pdf

The people measurement focused solely on quality of life. The indictors they used for it were: demographics, education, income inequality, affordability, work-life balance, crime, and health. Already, I have multiple problems with this. Firstly, the quality of life indicator lacks some measurements that I would consider important. Transportation affects quality of life, and while it is reflected in the study’s economic sector, it is not reflected here (issues of “double counting” data will be discussed later). Secondly, quality of life is not the only measurement of a city’s “people” sustainability. Culture and politics also come into play: what kind of cultural activities are available, do people have political representation, is there a lot of discrimination, etc. My third problem is that the indicators are created with a sparse amount of data. For example, the health indicator is measured with life expectancy and obesity. It ignores: Mental health, drug abuse, prevalence of disease, infant/mother mortality rate, health education and quantity, quality and affordability of health care facilities, among other things (again, issues of “double counting” data will be discussed later).

The planet rating was about both a city’s environmental impact and the impact the environment has on it. The indictors they used for it were: environmental risks, exposure to natural disasters, energy, green space, drinking water and sanitation, air pollution, greenhouse gas emissions and waste management. Once again, I felt that they were lacking in indicators and that the indicators themselves needed more information. I also felt that some factors were unfair, irrelevant, or that they could be incorrectly measured, and I also saw that this changes based on who the audience for the study is. For example, is fair or relevant to say a city is less sustainable because it is exposed to more natural disasters? If the audience is business or inhabitants, then yes. If it is policy makers, then it is irrelevant because it is irrelevant because it is impossible to make policy that changes this. Instead, preparedness for natural disasters would be a better rating. In the green spaces indicator, what counts as a “green space”? If a city cut down a forest to have a park with a soccer field, is this “green”? If a desert city has a natural desert park, is this not “green” (the paper implied that desert cities score low on the green spaces indicator for this reason)? Drinking water and sanitation feel like they should belong in the people rating, and pollution of natural water sources should be added (issues of relationships between the ratings discussed later).

The profit rating was about a city’s economy and the factors that affect it. The indictors they used for it were: transport infrastructure, economic development, ease of doing business, tourism, connectivity and employment. I had the same issues here. Education and income inequality are factors that affect this section too. Employment includes only the number of people employed, what about number of available jobs. I also felt that some indicators are irrelevant to some cities. Railroads are under transportation, but what if a city has such excellent highway and airport transportation that it does not need railroads? Perhaps the excellency of the other two would balance out the lack of railroads, or maybe it would artificially drag what should have been a good rating down. I don’t know if their measurements accounted for this, but we should

Next, I want to discuss the issues of double counting information and of the relationships between the three ratings. These issues are present in both the paper and in my suggestions. I do not hae the answers to solve these issues, rather opinions that I will discuss with my team.

Double counting information means including multiple closely linked pieces of data that overlap too much and artificially weigh a rating up or down. For example, in the health indicator, I suggested adding the quality of health care facilities. However, life expectancy is linked to health care quality, and one could argue that life expectancy already implicitly includes health care data; if life expectancy is low, we already know that health care quality is likely low. This means that if a city has high life expectancy, it will receive and even higher rating because health care quality will also be high, and vice versa for low life expectancy. This artificially raises or lowers ratings. However, ignoring data that might overlap will cause us to lose important data. For example, obesity and mental illness lower life expectancy, that is true, but they also give us other important information about quality of life and health. Additionally, one could argue that double counting does not matter because all cities face double counting equally.

Relationships between the ratings was something I felt was ignored in the paper. As I said earlier, education is something that also affects “profit” just as it affects “people.” Including education twice in both areas s not double counting in my opinion, but rather shows the relationships: Good quality of life in the form of education promotes a good economy, the two are intertwined.

Lastly, I want to discuss how this is all relevant to our project. The issues here are audience, geographical scope, and scope of data. Again, I am not offering solutions here, but talking points for my team and my own opinions that I will bring up our next meeting.

Audience determines what type of data is most important. It is useful in weeding out irrelevant data and in determining how to weigh data when giving a rating, and it will be useful in determining scope. An example of this has already been given earlier. If the data is intended or use by business or inhabitants, then exposure to environmental disasters is important because it determines if they want to do business or live in the city. It is also useful as a overall indicator for researchers because no matter what, a city is not sustainable if it is constantly destroyed by, say, earthquakes. But this information is not very useful for policy makers, they can not make a new law saying that the city has to be moved to a less earthquake prone area. Instead, disaster preparedness should take precedence over the prevalence of disasters.

Geographic scope is about how broad of an area of cities we should be looking at. It is affected by audience and affects the scope of data we can get. A global scope is too much in my opinion: too many cities, too much inconstant data, too much work to get detailed information. I do not think we should look at a global scope like the research projects I have been reading. That leaves us with a national or regional (state or county) scope. If the audience is inhabitants and movers, a regional scope will likely be too restricted. If the audience is policy makers, either a regional or national scope will work well (I read the book Smart Cities by Anthony M. Townsend a year ago, the author was all about cities making their own smart technology to improve themselves and a regionally scoped project would be a fine example of this.) With a regional scope, we will be able to go into a higher level of detail and we will likely find more consistent data because states and counties might have standards within them. Another aspect of geographic scope is the types of cities. The papers I have read are about urban areas, what about rural ones? Also, our original project is about neighborhoods, not cities. I believe cities and towns will have more data on them, but that is only a guess.

The scope of data is about what type of data and how much detail we should go into. Obviously, we have a limited amount of time to research and will not be able to cover everything. My biggest complaint about the study I read was the lack of detail, but will we be able to go into a high amount of detail? I believe that we can only if we limit ourselves in the geographical range, and/or if we focus on only one area of sustainability. I believe that we should go into a high level of detail in one of the ratings of sustainability because many other projects take a broad, but shallow look at all ratings. Our project would be different and useful if it provides more information about a particular subject instead of the same information on a broader range of subjects. I believe we should focus on the people rating because I feel that the environment and economy ae usually studied a lot while people are neglected more. Also, the study found that people tend to be neglected in their cities more than the other two pillars.
