In our last meeting, we started to discuss sustainability. Our goal for the week was to define it and start to decide what area we want to focus on. I have also continued looking into Semantic Web problems that our project can work on solving.
The definitions of sustainability that I found were focused on human-nature balance. The idea is to have a healthy economy, populace, and environment. I found two methods of sustainability that I liked best: The Pillars of Sustainability and the Circles of Sustainability. I after researching these methods, I found two research papers using them.
Pillars of Sustainability: Splits sustainability into 3 areas: People, economy, environment. This one is used a lot by businesses and was used in the “Sustainable Cities Index 2016,” a paper I am reading. A criticism of this approach is that businesses often make economy top priority an consider environment to be an external factor, and not a very important one. However, the “Sustainable Cities Index 2016” puts people at the heart of their research because they found that cities tend to do well on the economic or environmental factors, but lack with people. The UN used to use this model.
Circles of Sustainability: Splits sustainability into four parts: Economics, Ecology, Politics and Culture. It was made in response to the down falls of the Pillars of Sustainability and is the new model used by the UN. It was used in the “Annual Review 2012 Global Cities” paper I read. One downfall of this model is the difficulty of measuring cultural sustainability. Each circle is split into 9 sections, which are given a rating of 0-9. The ratings are displayed graphically in circles.
In the Semantic Web, I found two main problems:
1.	The info doesn’t exist as Linked Data
2.	The info exists, but is not properly linked together for this domain
These problems can be applied to sustainability: We can focus on one pillar or circle and gather data that does not exist as LOD, or we can gather existing LOD on the pillars or circles and bring them together to better serve the domain of sustainability. In my opinion, the Circles of Sustainability is better suited for the first, because it goes in further in depth than the Pillars of Sustainability, while the pillars are more suitable for the latter because the lighter information is likely on the Web, just not linked yet.
