---
layout: default
title: "Week 10: Novemeber 7th-November 13th"
date: 2017-11-13
published: true
excerpt_separator: <excerpt>
---
We finished defining our ontology last week and this week I began to it in Protégé. I have a few questions about the class hierarchy, but, besides that, I’m done with the class hierarchy. Now we have to talk about the properties of the classes. Here is the basic hierarchy and my proposed properties that I will discuss in our meeting tomorrow:
  
  *Index (Sub class is sustainability Index):
    
    *Includes 1 ranking property, float type
    *Includes 3 Sub Indexes, 1 of Social type, 1 of Economical type, and 1 of Ecological type. Must have one of each.
  
  *Sub Index (Sub Classes: Social, Economic, Ecological Sub 	indexes):
    
    *Includes 1 ranking property, float type.
    *Includes Indicators of associated type. Can only have one of each type of indicator. Allowed to be deficient (not include every possible indicator)
  
  *Indicator (Subclasses: Many Social, Economic, Ecological Indicators):
    
    *Includes 1 ranking property, integer type
    *Includes Factors of the associated type. Can only have of each and can be deficient
    *Weight, float (if applicable)
  
  *Factor (Subclasses: Many factors to go with the Idicators:
    
    *Includes one ranking property
    *Includes original (raw) data (number type). This is the form the data is in originally before it is put into the ranking.
    *Includes data source, a URI
    
    *Weight, float (if applicable)
Sibling classes are disjoint in my hierarchy. I think it might be reasonable to make some not disjoint (because data can be reused in different sub indexes/indicators) however it might not be (because the data may be similar but not the same).

From this we should be able to get a lot of useful information, including info that is not explicitly stated in the ontology such as:
  
  *The max amount of indicators in a sub index and factors in an indicator: This data can be gotten from the class hierarchy, the max amount of indicators for social is the number of social indicators, etc.
  
  *The amount of indicators in a specific sub index/factor. This data can be gotten from the instance data
  
  *The deficiency of a sub index/factors, calculated from the above values.
  
  *Ranking properties do not have to be explicitly stated if we write programs to do it for us, however it will be useful for others, and ourselves, to explicitly state these.

Regarding the last point, our group needs to figure out how to turn raw Factor data into a ranking from 0 to 10. We still do not know how we will calculate this. Here is my proposal: We base the ranking of indicators off the highest factor:
  
  *Example, number of universities
    
    *The highest ranking city has 300 universities. It is given the rank 1.
    *Another city has 100 universitise. Its rank is 100/300, .33
    *Etc, for all other cities
    *Cities with the same number receive the same ranking, which is fine
    *Multiplying this number by 100 gives us a ranking between 0 and 10
  
  *Sometimes the highest ranking is actually the worst. Because 10 is the best and 0 the worst, we will have to deal with these a little differently. I suggest inverting the values, example:
    
    *City with highest pollution is still initially given the number 1. The amount of pollution is 300 ppm.
    *Another city has 100, so it is initially given 100/300 = .33
    *Etc for other cities
    *Subtract the initial ranking from 1 to give the real ranking. The city with an initial ranking of 1 is now 0 and the city with a ranking of .33 is now .67.
    *Multiply by 100

The ranking of an indicator, sub index, and index is calculated with an average (possibly weighted) of the factors/indicators/sub indexes the thing contains. Calculation of the rankings of all parts can be automated after the data is gather, and automatically adjusted when data is changed.

I hope to discuss these things with my team and code the solutions this week.
