---
layout: default
title: "Week 32: April 9th - April 15th"
date: 2018-04-15
published: true
excerpt_separator: <excerpt>
---
This week we have been working for the poster for this project for our university's Innovation Showcase. My part of the poster includes an explanation for the alogrithm used to calculate rank and a picture representing the ontology.
The ranking of a higher level is calculated with the average of the lower level rankings; ie, an index is calculated with the average of the sub indexes, the subindexes are calculated with the average of the factors, the factors calculated with indicators.
The lowest level, the data point , is calculated as a percent of the “best” data recorded for that indicator. The definition of “best” depends on the domain of the data, so two methods are used for calclating the rank: 
If higher data is better:
*City with the highest indicator data is found. For example, the amount of recycled material for the highest city might be 10 tons.
*Calculate what percent the current city’s data is of the highest city’s data. If the city currently being calculated has a recycling amount of 8 tons, it is 80% of the highest city 
*Normalize the ranking to a scale from 0 to 10. The city we are calculating would have a rank of 8.
If lower data is better:
*Go through the same process, using again the city with the highest data. If the highest per capita per year landfill waste is 10 tons, and the current city had 8 tons, this city has an initial ranking of 8
*Subtract the this ranking from 10, so the worst city (the on with the highest data) has a rank of 0. This gives the current city a value of 2.
*Find the city with the highest value (the one that had the lowest amount of landfill waste). Add enough to the rank to make the rank 10. Add the same amount to all other ranks. If the best city in the example had 4 tons of landfill waste, it would have had an initial ranking of 4 and after the subtraction it would have had 6. To make this rank a 10, we add 4 to it. So add 1 to all values to find the final rank. Our example city would have a rank of 2 + 4 = 6
The reason we must add at the end is to make sure the data all follows the same "pattern" so to speak. We essentially have two choices of how the data points can fall in the ranking: 1) The best city has a rank of 10 and all others fall behind, and 2) the worst city has a rank of 0 and all others fall above. Mixing these methods would result in rankings that do not acccurately reflect the sustainability of a city since we have defined the rank 10 to be the most sustainable. Looking back at the waste management example shows this: The best city only received a ranking of 6, which does not reflect the fact that this city throws the least amount of waste into landfills and is therefore the most sustainable.
